~~~~  

Master Independent Contractor Services Agreement (MICSA) 

This Master Independent Contractor Services Agreement ("Agreement") is made as of ____________ (the "Effective Date"), by and between VanMobile Services "Principle" and "Contractor").
Individually or collectively, VanMobile and Contractor may be referred to herein as a "party" or the "parties." Any capitalized term used herein shall have the meaning given to it in the attached Standard Terms and Conditions. 
The terms and conditions of this Agreement will apply to each business transaction between the parties for the provision of Services for VanMobile by Contractor. 
By signing below, the parties agree to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, including without limitation the Standard Terms and Conditions attached hereto and all exhibits thereto.
This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which will be considered an original, but all of which together will constitute the same instrument.
Once signed, any reproduction of this Agreement, or any attachment or exhibit hereto, made by reliable means (for example, photocopy, PDF, digital copy, or facsimile) is considered an original and all Services ordered under this Agreement will be subject to it. 


PRINCIPLE NAME: ____________________________________                CONTRACTOR NAME:  ____________________________________
SIGNATURE:      ____________________________________                SIGNATURE:        ____________________________________  
PRINT NAME:     ____________________________________                PRINT NAME:       ____________________________________
TITLE:          ____________________________________                TITLE:            ____________________________________
DATE:           ____________________________________                DATE:             ____________________________________   
EMAIL:          ____________________________________                EMAIL:            ____________________________________   




Standard Terms and Conditions

1. Services

1.1 Engagement and Statements of Work. VanMobile hereby engages Contractor, and Contractor hereby accepts such engagement, for Contractor to perform consulting, Software development, design, application, training, integration, implementation and other professional services from time to time for VanMobile as described in one or more Statements of Work therefor and to provide and transfer any and all Work Product, Intellectual Property, and Intellectual Property Rights resulting therefrom to VanMobile all during the term of this Agreement and all on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and any and all such Statements of Work. Each Statement of Work shall be mutually agreed upon and signed by both parties.
Contractor shall determine the time, place, manner, and means of performing the Services and shall perform the Services in accordance with the schedule set forth in the applicable Statement of Work. No Statement of Work shall be effective unless signed by duly authorized Representatives of both parties. Each fully executed Statement of Work shall be attached as an Exhibit to, and by this reference incorporated in and made a part of, this Agreement. 

1.2 Change Orders; Conflicts. In the event either party requires a material change to a Statement of Work, such party will provide a written change order to the other for approval via email, specifying the change required (each a "Change Order"). Each party agrees that a Change Order may necessitate a change in the delivery schedule and fees due under the applicable Statement of Work. No Change Order will be binding upon either party until it is agreed upon in writing by email by authorized Representatives of both parties. Each Statement of Work and Change Order will be governed by the terms of this Agreement. In the event of a conflict between the terms and conditions of this Agreement and those of a Statement of Work or Change Order, the terms and conditions of this Agreement will control, unless specifically stated otherwise in the Statement of Work or Change Order. 

1.3 Acceptance, Rejection, and/or Modification of Work Product. Upon Contractor’s submission of the Work Product, VanMobile will, in its sole discretion, accept or reject all or part of the Work Product or return it to Contractor with suggested changes. Contractor acknowledges that if the unaccepted portion of the Work Product contains any Confidential Information or VanMobile Materials, then VanMobile will retain sole and exclusive ownership of such property, and Contractor shall return the unaccepted Work Product to VanMobile. 
If VanMobile requires a change to the Work Product, it will notify Contractor of the requested change and the due date for resubmitting the revised Work Product. VanMobile may accept or reject all or part of the corrected Work Product at its sole discretion. VanMobile will have no obligation to return any accepted Work Product to Contractor. VanMobile has the right to edit or adapt any Work Product in any manner, including, without limitation, with respect to its form, medium, format, delivery mechanism or content as VanMobile deems appropriate. Contractor agrees to provide VanMobile with the information and know-how necessary for VanMobile to edit or adapt the Work Product, at no additional cost to VanMobile, and will cooperate with VanMobile in any such editing or adaptation.
If the Work Product is an article or other written piece, Contractor agrees to provide to VanMobile with the Work Product, a written bibliography and list of sources contacted in the process of researching and preparing such Work Product and include captions and pull quotes where appropriate. 

1.4 Time of the Essence. Contractor acknowledges that time is of the essence with respect to Contractor's obligations hereunder and agrees that prompt and timely performance of all such obligations in accordance with this Agreement and each Statement of Work is strictly required. 

1.5 Duties Regarding Performance, Work Product, and Software. Contractor shall design, develop, create, test, deliver, install, configure, integrate, customize and otherwise provide and make fully operational Work Product as described in each Statement of Work, and otherwise provide the Services, all in a timely, professional, workmanlike manner and in accordance with all terms, conditions and business, functional, and technical specifications set forth in this Agreement and any such Statement of Work. Contractor shall ensure all Work Product complies with the specifications therefor as set forth in the applicable Statement of Work. Contractor shall provide all Software to VanMobile in either or both object code and Source Code form at the sole option of VanMobile. 

1.6 Third-Party Materials. Unless expressly provided otherwise in any applicable Statement of Work, Contractor shall not include in any Software, and operation of all Software in accordance with its specifications shall not require, any Third-Party Materials. 

1.7 Background Technology. Unless expressly provided otherwise in any applicable Statement of Work, Contractor shall not include in any Software, and operation of all Software in accordance with its specifications shall not require, any Background Technology. 

1.8 Open-Source Components. Contractor may include in any Software, and operation of any Software in accordance with its specifications as set forth in any applicable Statement of Work may require the use of, any Open-Source Components. 

1.9 Controlled Technology. Contractor shall not include in any Software any Controlled Technology. 

1.10 Contractor Personnel. 
a) Contractor is solely responsible for all Contractor Personnel and for the payment of their compensation, including, if applicable, withholding of income taxes, and the payment and withholding of social security and other payroll taxes, unemployment insurance, workers' compensation insurance payments and disability benefits. 
b) Prior to any Contractor Personnel performing any Services hereunder, Contractor shall: 
i. ensure that such Contractor Personnel have the legal right to work; and 
ii. require such Contractor Personnel to execute written agreements, in form and substance acceptable to VanMobile, that bind such Contractor Personnel to confidentiality provisions that are at least as protective of VanMobile's information (including all Confidential Information) as those contained in this Agreement and Intellectual Property Rights provisions that grant VanMobile rights in the Work Product consistent with the provisions of Section 3 and, upon VanMobile's request, provide VanMobile such executed agreement(s). 
c) Contractor shall, and shall ensure that all Contractor Personnel, comply with all rules, regulations and policies of VanMobile that are communicated to Contractor in writing, including security procedures concerning systems and data and remote access thereto. 

1.11 Testing By Contractor. Before delivering and installing any Work Product, Contractor shall test any Software component of the Work Product to confirm that it is fully operable, meets all applicable specifications in the applicable Statement of Work, and will function properly, and shall also scan such Software component of the Work Product using the most up-to-date scanning software and definitions to confirm it is free of Harmful Code before delivery to VanMobile. Any Harmful Code identified must be remedied before delivery and the Software component of the Work Product must be retested and rescanned. 


2. Fees and Payment 

2.1 Fees. In consideration of the rights granted and Services provided by Contractor hereunder, subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the applicable Statement of Work, VanMobile agrees to pay Contractor all fees due pursuant to Statements of Work entered into hereunder, subject to timely submission of any deliverables in accordance with the schedule in the applicable Statement of Work, as set forth in this Section 2. Contractor will provide VanMobile with reasonable documentation and work description in connection with Contractor’s invoices, as requested by VanMobile. 

2.2 Costs and Expenses. Unless expressly provided otherwise in any applicable Statement of Work, Contractor will be solely responsible for all expenses incurred by Contractor or any of its employees or agents or subcontractors in connection with performing the Services or otherwise performing its obligations under this Agreement. 

2.3 Payment Terms. Except as otherwise set forth herein or in a Statement of Work, Contractor will invoice VanMobile on a periodic basis for amounts due hereunder which periodic basis will be determined by VanMobile from time to time, and VanMobile shall pay invoices as set forth in the applicable Statement of Work. All payments will be made in U.S. dollars at VanMobile’s option and by a payment method of VanMobile’s choosing. 
Contractor shall submit each invoice in PDF format via email to an email address as specified by VanMobile in writing from time to time. If more than one Statement of Work is outstanding, Contractor shall provide an aggregate invoice for all fees being invoiced, together with separate invoices for each Statement of Work. All time must be tracked in Harvest or the then-current time tracking software application specified by VanMobile from time to time. Each separate invoice shall be generated in Harvest or the then-current time tracking software application specified by VanMobile from time to time and shall also: 
a) identify the Statement of Work to which the invoice relates, in a manner determined by VanMobile; 
b) include detailed notes for each line item; 
c) for fees determined on a time and materials basis, report details of time taken to perform Services, and such other information that VanMobile requires, on a per-individual basis; 
d) be accompanied by all supporting documentation required hereunder for reimbursable expenses; and e) include such other information as may be required by VanMobile as set forth in the applicable Statement of Work. 

Contractor shall be responsible for all wire and transfer fees. 
Payments shall be made to the address or account as is specified by Contractor in writing from time to time, provided that Contractor shall give VanMobile at least seven (7) days' prior notice of any account, address or other change in payment instructions. VanMobile will not be liable for any late or misdirected payment caused by Contractor's failure to provide timely notice of any such change. 
VanMobile may withhold from payment any amount disputed by VanMobile in good faith, pending resolution of any dispute. Contractor shall continue performing its obligations in accordance with this Agreement notwithstanding any such dispute or actual or alleged nonpayment that is the subject of a dispute, pending its resolution. 

2.4 Taxes. All fees set forth herein are exclusive of taxes. Contractor shall be responsible for all sales, use and excise taxes, and any other similar taxes, duties and charges of any kind imposed by any federal, provincial/state or local governmental entity on any amounts payable by VanMobile hereunder other than any taxes imposed on, or with respect to, Contractor's income, revenues, gross receipts, personnel or real or personal property or other assets. 

2.5 Right of Set-off. Without prejudice to any other right or remedy it may have, VanMobile reserves the right to set off at any time any amount owing to it by Contractor against any amount payable by VanMobile to Contractor under this Agreement or otherwise. 


3. Intellectual Property Rights Ownership; Licenses

3.1 VanMobile Ownership of Work Product. Except as set forth in Section 3.3 and 3.7, VanMobile is and will be the sole and exclusive owner of all right, title and interest in and to all Work Product, including all Intellectual Property Rights therein. In furtherance of the foregoing, subject to Section 3.3 and 3.7: 
a) Contractor shall create all Work Product as work made for hire as defined in Section 101 of the Copyright Act of 1976; and 
b) to the extent any Work Product or Intellectual Property Rights therein do not qualify as, or otherwise fail to be, work made for hire, Contractor shall, and hereby does, in consideration of this Agreement: 
i. assign, transfer, and otherwise convey to VanMobile, irrevocably and in perpetuity, throughout the universe, all right, title and interest in and to such Work Product, including all Intellectual Property Rights therein; and 
ii.	irrevocably waive any and all claims Contractor may now or hereafter have in any jurisdiction to so-called "moral rights" or rights of droit moral with respect to the Work Product. 

3.2 Further Actions. Contractor shall, and shall cause all Contractor Personnel to take all appropriate action and execute and deliver all documents necessary or reasonably requested by VanMobile to effectuate any of the provisions or purposes of Section 3.1, or otherwise as may be necessary or useful for VanMobile to prosecute, register, perfect, record or enforce its rights in or to any Work Product or any Intellectual Property Right therein. Contractor hereby appoints VanMobile as Contractor's attorney-in-fact with full irrevocable power and authority to take any such actions and execute any such documents if Contractor refuses, or within a period deemed reasonable by VanMobile otherwise fails, to do so. 

3.3 Background Technology and Open-Source Components. 
a) Contractor is and will remain the sole and exclusive owner of all right, title and interest in and to the Background Technology, including all Intellectual Property Rights therein, subject to the license granted in Section 3.6. 
b) Ownership of all Open-Source Components, and all Intellectual Property Rights therein, is and will remain with the respective owners thereof, subject to VanMobile's rights under the applicable Open-Source Licenses. 

3.4 VanMobile Materials Ownership. VanMobile acknowledges that in order to perform the Services, Contractor may require access to certain VanMobile software or other information or material of VanMobile or VanMobile’s suppliers which are hereinafter referred to as the defined term VanMobile Materials. VanMobile and its licensors are and will remain the sole and exclusive owners of all right, title and interest in and to the VanMobile Materials, including all Intellectual Property Rights therein. Contractor shall have no right or license to, and shall not, use any VanMobile Materials except solely during the Term of the Statement of Work(s) for which they are provided to the extent necessary to perform the Services and provide the Work Product to VanMobile. All other rights in and to the VanMobile Materials are expressly reserved by VanMobile. 

3.5 VanMobile Materials License. Except to the extent prohibited under any third party license from VanMobile’s suppliers, VanMobile hereby grants to Contractor the limited, royalty-free, non-exclusive, non-transferable right and license to VanMobile Materials solely as necessary to incorporate such VanMobile Materials into, or otherwise use such VanMobile Materials in connection with performing the Services and creating the Work Product. The term of such license shall commence upon VanMobile's delivery of the VanMobile Materials to Contractor, and shall terminate upon VanMobile's acceptance or rejection of the Work Product to which the VanMobile Materials relate. Subject to the foregoing license, VanMobile reserves all rights in the VanMobile Materials. VanMobile Materials shall be deemed VanMobile's Confidential Information. 

3.6 Background Technology License. Contractor hereby grants to VanMobile such rights and licenses with respect to the Background Technology that will allow VanMobile to use and otherwise exploit perpetually throughout the universe for all or any purposes whatsoever the Work Product, to the same extent as if VanMobile owned the Background Technology, without incurring any fees or costs to Contractor (other than the Fees and Reimbursable Expenses set forth herein) or any other Person in respect of the Background Technology. In furtherance of the foregoing, such rights and licenses shall: 
a) be irrevocable, perpetual, fully paid-up and royalty-free; 
b) include the rights to use, reproduce, perform (publicly or otherwise), display (publicly or otherwise), modify, improve, create derivative works of, distribute, import, make, have made, sell and offer to sell the Background Technology, including all such modifications, improvements and derivative works thereof; and 
c) be freely assignable and sublicensable, in each case solely in connection with the assignment or licensing of the Work Product or any portion, modification or derivative work thereof, and only to the extent necessary to allow the assignee or sublicensee, as the case may be, to use and exploit the Work Product or portion, modification, improvement or derivative work thereof. 
Contractor reserves all rights in the Background Technology not expressly granted to VanMobile herein. 

3.7 Open-Source Components. Any use of the Open-Source Components by VanMobile will be governed by, and subject to, the terms and conditions of the applicable Open-Source Licenses. 

3.8 Portfolio Display.
Unless expressly agreed to in writing by VanMobile, Contractor has no right to use, display, and distribute portions of the Work Product, for example, code snippets and/or screenshots, as part of its portfolio for any reason. 


4. Warranties

4.1 Mutual Representations and Warranties. 
Each Party represents and warrants to the other Party that: 
a) it is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing as a corporation or other entity as represented herein under the laws and regulations of its jurisdiction of incorporation, organization or chartering; 
b) it has the full right, power and authority to enter into this Agreement, to grant the rights and licenses granted hereunder and to perform its obligations hereunder; 
c) the execution of this Agreement by its representative whose signature is set forth at the end hereof has been duly authorized by all necessary organizational action of the party; and 
d) when executed and delivered by both parties, this Agreement will constitute the legal, valid and binding obligation of such party, enforceable against such party in accordance with its terms. 

4.2 Limited Warranty. Contractor warrants to VanMobile that: 
a) all Work Product will conform to the specifications, requirements, and other terms in the applicable Statement of Work and this Agreement; 
b) it will perform all Services in a professional and workmanlike manner in accordance with best industry standards and practices for similar services, using personnel with the requisite skill, experience and qualifications, and shall devote adequate resources to meet its obligations under this Agreement; 
c) It is in compliance with, and will perform all Services in compliance with, all applicable Law; 
d) VanMobile will receive good and valid title to all VanMobile-Owned Work Product, free and clear of all encumbrances and liens of any kind; 
e) When delivered by Contractor, no Work Product will contain any Harmful Code; 
f) All Work Product, including all updates, upgrades, new versions, new releases, enhancements, improvements and other modifications thereof, but excluding VanMobile Materials, Third-Party Materials and Open-Source Components, is or will be the original creation of Contractor; 
g) As delivered, installed, specified or approved by Contractor and used by VanMobile or any Third Party authorized by VanMobile, in accordance with this Agreement and any applicable documentation, the Work Product (excluding VanMobile Materials): (i) will not infringe, misappropriate or otherwise violate any Intellectual Property Right or other right of any Third Party; and (ii) will comply with all applicable Laws; and 
h) No expiration or loss of any patent or application for patent rights in the work product is pending, or, to Contractor's knowledge after reasonable inquiry, threatened or reasonably foreseeable, and Contractor has no reason to believe that any claims of any such patent or patent application are or will be invalid, unenforceable, fail to issue, or be materially limited or restricted beyond the current claims, except for patent rights expiring at the end of their statutory term. 
Contractor shall, as its obligation and VanMobile’s non-exclusive remedy for any breach of the warranty set forth in this Section, re-perform the Services which gave rise to the breach or, at VanMobile’s option, refund the fees paid by VanMobile for the Services which gave rise to the breach. 

4.3 Disclaimer. EXCEPT FOR THE LIMITED WARRANTIES SET FORTH IN SECTION 4.2 ABOVE, THE SERVICES AND ANY DELIVERABLES ARE PROVIDED "AS IS," WITHOUT REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND. EACH PARTY EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMS ALL OTHER WARRANTIES, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, TITLE, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, AND ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES ARISING OUT OF COURSE OF PERFORMANCE OR COURSE OF DEALING. 


5. Indemnification 

5.1 VanMobile Indemnification. Contractor shall defend and indemnify and hold harmless VanMobile, its parents, stockholders, officers, directors, employees, sub-licensees, customers and agents (collectively the "Indemnified Parties") from any claim, suit, action, or proceeding ("Claim") against VanMobile brought by a Third Party to the extent that such Claim is based upon Contractor’s breach of any representation, warranty, covenant or obligation of Contractor (including any action or failure to act by any subcontractor that, if taken or not taken by Contractor, would constitute such a breach by Contractor) under this Agreement including but not limited to any allegation that VanMobile’s use of any Work Product infringes upon or misappropriates any U.S. Intellectual Property Right(s), and Contractor shall indemnify and hold VanMobile harmless from and against any and all liabilities, losses, damages, costs, and other expenses (including attorneys’ and expert witnesses’ costs and fees) arising from or relating to such Claim. 

If any Work Product becomes, or in VanMobile’s opinion is likely to become, the subject of an infringement claim, Contractor shall also, and not in lieu of any indemnification obligations, and at VanMobile’s option and sole discretion, either (i) procure for VanMobile the right to continue using the Work Product as contemplated by this Agreement, (ii) replace or modify the Work Product in whole or in part, to seek to make the Work Product (as so modified or replaced) non-infringing while providing materially equivalent features and functionality, or (iii) accept return of the Work Product, terminate VanMobile’s rights to the Work Product and give VanMobile a full and total refund of the fees paid by VanMobile for the Work Product upon such return. 


6. Confidentiality

6.1 Definition. 
"Confidential Information" as used herein, shall mean the terms and conditions of this Agreement and all information related to a party’s business, financial affairs or operations, including but not limited to information related to trade secrets, proprietary information, and other information belonging to VanMobile that are not generally known to the public, including information about business plans, financial statements, technology and other information provided under this Agreement, operating practices and methods, expansion plans, strategic plans, marketing plans, contracts, customer lists, product or service development plans, pricing, or other business documents that a party treats as confidential, in any format whatsoever including oral, written, and electronic. Examples of Confidential Information include the items on the following list, which is not exhaustive: 
a) all information, formulae, compilations, software programs (including object codes and source codes), devices, methods, techniques, drawings, plans, experimental and research work, inventions, patterns, processes and know-how—whether or not patentable and whether or not at a commercial stage—related to VanMobile; 
b) the names, buying habits, or practices of any customers of VanMobile; 
c) marketing methods and related data of VanMobile; 
d) the names of any vendors or suppliers of VanMobile; 
e) the cost of materials to VanMobile; 
f) the prices VanMobile obtains or has obtained or at which it sells or has sold its products or services; 
g) lists or other written records used in the business of VanMobile; 
h) compensation paid to employees and other employment terms of VanMobile; 
i) all information that VanMobile has a legal obligation to treat as confidential or that VanMobile treats as proprietary; or 
j) any other confidential information concerning the business of VanMobile, their manners of operation, or other confidential data of any kind, nature, or description. 

6.2 Non-Disclosure Agreement. In connection with the performance of Services by Contractor to VanMobile ("Performance of Services"), the Contractor acknowledges that the Contractor will have access to Confidential Information and that VanMobile: 
a) has invested and continues to invest significant time, expense, and specialized knowledge in developing this Confidential Information; 
b) enjoys a competitive advantage in the marketplace based on the Confidential Information; and c) would be irreparably harmed if competitors obtained the Confidential Information or if it became publicly available. 
Contractor therefore agrees as follows: 
Without limiting the applicability of any other agreement to which Contractor is subject, Contractor may not directly or indirectly disclose or use any Confidential Information at any time during or after the Term of this Agreement. This restriction includes the use of Confidential Information for personal, commercial, or proprietary advantage or profit. Contractor shall take all appropriate steps to safeguard the Confidential Information and to protect it against 
disclosure, misuse, espionage, loss, and theft. Upon VanMobile’s request, Contractor will promptly 
return or destroy all copies of the Confidential Information. 

6.3 Certain Information Not Considered Confidential. The restrictions on the use and disclosure of Confidential Information shall not apply to any Confidential Information, or portion thereof, which 
(a) is or becomes publicly known through no act or omission of the receiving party; 
(b) is lawfully received from a third party without restriction on disclosure; 
(c) is already known by Contractor at the time it is disclosed by VanMobile, as shown by the Contractor’s written records; or 
(d) is independently developed by Contractor without reference to VanMobile’s Confidential Information, as shown by Contractor’s written records. 

6.4 Permitted Disclosures. Nothing in this Section 6 prevents Contractor from disclosing Confidential Information: 
a) upon the order of any court or administrative agency, upon the request or demand of any regulatory agency or authority having jurisdiction over Contractor, or to the extent compelled by legal process or required or requested under subpoena, interrogatories, or other discovery requests; 
b) as necessary in connection with exercising any remedy under this Agreement; or 
c) in connection with the performance of Services, to Contractor’s legal counsel and accountants who, in the Contractor’s reasonable judgment, need to know the 
Confidential Information and agree to be bound by the provisions of Section 6 as if a party. 
Contractor must not make any disclosure permitted by this Section (other than disclosure to Contractor’s own legal counsel in connection with the performance of Services) before notifying VanMobile as far in advance of the disclosure as practicable. Notice to VanMobile must state the purpose of the disclosure and the means taken to ensure that any disclosed Confidential Information remains confidential. 


7. Term and Termination

7.1 Term. This Agreement shall become effective upon the Effective Date for a term of twelve (12) months (the "Initial Term"), unless terminated as provided herein. Following the Initial Term, this Agreement shall automatically renew for one (1) month terms (each a "Renewal Term") unless either party provides notice of its intent not to renew the Agreement. To be effective, such notice must be delivered at least five (5) days in advance of the next Renewal Term. 

7.2 Termination. Notwithstanding subsection 7.1, VanMobile may terminate this Agreement with or without cause upon seven (7) days' notice to Contractor, and must pay Contractor within thirty (30) days of the date of termination for all previously-accrued but not yet paid fees for acceptable Services performed and deliverables completed to that date. Either VanMobile or Contractor may terminate this Agreement if the other is in material breach and has not cured this material breach within thirty (30) days of receipt of written notice specifying the breach. 

7.3 
Effect of Termination. Upon the expiration or termination of this Agreement, 
(a) each party shall return the other’s Confidential Information in its possession or control, and 
(b) all amounts owed to Contractor under this Agreement which accrued before such termination or expiration, for Services and Work Product deliverables that have been accepted by VanMobile in accordance with the applicable Statement of Work, will be immediately due and payable. 
Sections 2 (Fees and Payment), 3 (Intellectual Property Rights Ownership; Licenses), 4 (Warranties), 5 (Indemnification), 6 (Confidentiality), 7.3 (Effect of Termination), 8 (Limitation of Liability), 9 (Non-Solicitation), 10 (Nondisparagement), 11 (General), and 12 (Definitions) will survive the expiration or termination of this Agreement for any reason. 
Upon the termination of this Agreement, Contractor will provide reasonable assistance to VanMobile for the transition of Services and Work Product deliverables in accordance with VanMobile’s reasonable requirements. 


8. 
Limitation of Liability

IN NO EVENT WILL VanMobile BE LIABLE FOR ANY CONSEQUENTIAL, INDIRECT, EXEMPLARY, SPECIAL, OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY LOST DATA AND LOST PROFITS, ARISING FROM OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. VanMobile’S TOTAL CUMULATIVE LIABILITY IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, WILL NOT EXCEED THE AMOUNT OF FEES PAID TO CONTRACTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT DURING THE TWELVE (12) MONTH PERIOD PRECEDING THE EVENTS GIVING RISE TO SUCH LIABILITY. 


9. Non-Solicitation

Contractor recognizes that the employees and independent contractors of VanMobile, and such employees’ and independent contractors’ loyalty and service to VanMobile, constitute a valuable asset of VanMobile. Contractor further recognizes that VanMobile’s hiring and training of employees, and locating and engaging of independent contractors, all represent a substantial financial outlay for VanMobile. In respect of this, Contractor agrees not to directly or indirectly hire, solicit, or encourage any other Person to hire or solicit any individual who has been employed or contracted by VanMobile within 24 months before the hiring date or solicitation, or encourage any such individual to leave VanMobile’s employment. This Section 9 does not prevent Contractor from hiring or soliciting any employee or former employee or independent contractor of VanMobile who responds to a general solicitation that is a public solicitation of prospective employees or independent contractors and is not directed specifically to the employees or independent contractors of VanMobile. 
Contractor further acknowledges access to Confidential Information and a position of trust and confidence with VanMobile. In respect of this, Contractor agrees not to directly or indirectly solicit, entice, or attempt to solicit or entice any clients, customers, or suppliers of VanMobile to divert their business or services from VanMobile for a period of 24 consecutive months, beginning on the last day of the last date on which the parties are associated in connection with this Agreement. 


10. Nondisparagement

Contractor will not, during and after the term of this Agreement, disparage or defame VanMobile to any Person. 


11. General

11.1 Governing Law; Submission to Jurisdiction. This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the Province of British Columbia, without regard to its principles of conflicts of law. The parties expressly exclude the application of the United Nations Convention on the International Sale of Goods and the Uniform Computer Information Transactions Act. Contractor hereby expressly consents to the exclusive personal and subject-matter jurisdiction of the provincial/state and federal courts, for any dispute arising from or related to this Agreement. 

11.2 Relationship of Parties. The relationship of the parties established under this Agreement is that of non-exclusive independent contractors and neither party is a partner, employee, agent, or joint venture partner of or with the other, and neither party has the right or authority to assume or create any obligation on behalf of the other party. 
Contractor is not the agent of VanMobile and is not authorized to make any representation, contract, or commitment on behalf of VanMobile. Contractor will not be entitled to any of the benefits which VanMobile may make available to its employees, including, but not limited to, group insurance, stock option plans, profit-sharing or retirement benefits. Because Contractor is an independent contractor, VanMobile will not withhold or make payments for social security, make unemployment insurance or disability insurance contributions, or obtain worker’s compensation insurance on Contractor’s behalf. Contractor will be solely responsible for, and agrees to accept exclusive liability for, complying with all applicable foreign, federal and provincial/state laws governing self-employed individuals, including obligations such as payment of taxes, social security, disability and other contributions based on fees paid to Contractor or its agents under this Agreement. Contractor hereby agrees to indemnify and hold harmless VanMobile against any and all such taxes or contributions, including penalties and interest. 

11.3 Assignment. The rights and obligations of Contractor may not be assigned without VanMobile’s prior written consent. The rights and obligations of VanMobile under this Agreement will inure to the benefit of and will be binding upon the successors and assignees of VanMobile. 

11.4 Notices. All notices, requests, consents, claims, demands, waivers and other communications under this Agreement and Statements of Work must be delivered in writing by reputable international overnight courier, by email, or by certified or registered mail, (postage prepaid and return receipt requested) to the other party at the address or email address set forth on Page Two (2) of this Agreement, and will be effective upon receipt if sent by courier or on receipt if sent by fax or on the date sent by e-mail (with confirmation of transmission), if sent during normal business hours of the recipient, and on the next business day, if sent after normal business hours of the recipient or three (3) business days after being deposited in the mail as required above, whichever occurs sooner. Either party may change its address by giving notice of the new address to the other party. 

11.5 Force Majeure. Neither party shall be liable for any breach of the Agreement, other than any default in payment obligations, for any delay or failure of performance resulting from any cause beyond such party’s reasonable control, including but not limited to the weather, civil disturbances, acts of civil or military authorities, or acts of God. 

11.6 Severability. If any provision of this Agreement is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be unenforceable, such provision will be changed and interpreted to accomplish the objectives of such provision to the greatest extent possible under applicable Law and the remaining provisions of this Agreement will continue in full force and effect. 

11.7 Amendment and Modification; Waiver. No amendment to or modification of or rescission, termination or discharge of this Agreement is effective unless it is in writing, identified as an amendment to or rescission, termination or discharge of this Agreement and signed by an authorized representative of both parties. No waiver by any party of any of the provisions hereof shall be effective unless explicitly set forth in writing and signed by the party so waiving. Except as otherwise set forth in this Agreement, no failure to exercise, or delay in exercising, any right, remedy, power or privilege arising from this Agreement shall operate or be construed as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, remedy, power or privilege. 

11.8 Interpretation. The headings used for the sections of this Agreement are for information purposes and convenience only and in no way define, limit, construe or describe the scope or extent of the sections. If any dispute arises concerning the meaning or construction of any term or terms of this Agreement, then no part or term of this Agreement shall be construed for or against any party as a drafting party. The parties hereto recognize that the drafting of this Agreement was the joint effort of all parties hereto. 

11.9 Entire Agreement. This Agreement and its exhibits and Statements of Work constitute the entire agreement between the parties with regard to the subject matter hereof, and this Agreement supersedes all prior or contemporaneous agreements, commitments, representations, writings, and discussions between VanMobile and Contractor, whether oral or written. No oral or written representation that is not expressly contained in this Agreement is binding on Contractor or VanMobile. No amendment to this Agreement or any Statements of Work shall be binding on either party unless in writing and signed by both parties. Contractor expressly acknowledges that Contractor has read the terms of this Agreement, has had the opportunity to discuss those terms with her/his or her own legal counsel, and understands that this is a legally binding contract. 

11.10 Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in separate counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original and all of which shall be deemed one and the same instrument. 

11.11 Further Assurances. Upon a party's request, the other party shall, at such other party's sole cost and expense, promptly execute all such further documents and instruments, and take all such further actions, necessary to give full effect to this Agreement. 

11.12 Waiver of Jury Trial. Each party irrevocably and unconditionally waives any right it may have to a trial by jury in respect of any legal action arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby. 

11.13 Attorneys' Fees. In the event that any action, suit, or other legal or administrative proceeding is instituted or commenced by either party hereto against the other party arising out of or related to this Agreement, the prevailing party shall be entitled to recover its reasonable attorneys' fees and court costs from the non-prevailing party. 

11.14 Equitable Relief. Each party acknowledges that a breach by Contractor or any of its employees, subcontractors, or agents of Section 3 or Section 6 would cause immediate and irreparable harm to VanMobile, for which an award of damages would not be adequate compensation. Accordingly, Contractor agrees that, in the event of such breach or threatened breach, VanMobile will be entitled to equitable relief, including in the form of orders for preliminary or permanent injunction, specific performance and any other relief that may be available from any court. Such remedies shall not be deemed to be exclusive but shall be in addition to all other remedies available under this Agreement, at law or in equity. 



12. Definitions

For purposes of this Agreement, the following terms have the following meanings: 

a) "Agreement" has the meaning set forth in the preamble. 

b) "Background Technology" means all Software, data, know-how, ideas, methodologies, specifications and other technology in which Contractor owns such Intellectual Property Rights as are necessary for Contractor to grant the rights and licenses set forth in this Section, and for VanMobile (including its licensees, successors and assigns) to exercise such rights and licenses, without violating any right of any Third Party or any Law or incurring any payment obligation to any Third Party, and that: (a) are identified as background technology in any Statement of Work; and (b) were or are developed or otherwise acquired by Contractor prior to the Effective Date, with respect to the initial Statement of Work, or the date of VanMobile's request for additional Services, with respect to any other Statement of Work. 

c) "Contractor" has the meaning set forth in the preamble. 

d) "Contractor Personnel" means all employees of Contractor or any subcontractors involved in the performance of Services or providing Work Product hereunder. 

e) "Controlled Technology" means any software, documentation, technology or other technical data, or any products that include or use any of the foregoing, the export, re­export or release of which to certain jurisdictions or countries is prohibited or requires an export license or other governmental approval, under any Law, including the US Export Administration Act and its associated regulations. 

f) "Effective Date" has the meaning set forth in the preamble. 

g) "VanMobile" has the meaning set forth in the preamble. 

h) "VanMobile Materials" means all materials and information, including documents, data, know­how, ideas, methodologies, specifications, software, content and technology, in any form or media, directly or indirectly provided or made available to Contractor by or on behalf of VanMobile in connection with this Agreement, whether or not the same: (a) are owned by VanMobile, a Third Party or in the public domain; or (b) qualify for or are protected by any Intellectual Property Rights. 

i) "VanMobile-Owned Work Product" means all Work Product other than materials expressly identified in a Statement of Work as Background Technology, or Third-Party Materials; or any and all Open-Source Components. 

j) "Harmful Code" means any: (a) virus, trojan horse, worm, backdoor or other software or hardware devices the effect of which is to permit unauthorized access to, or to disable, erase, or otherwise harm, any computer, systems or software; or (b) time bomb, drop dead device, or other software or hardware device designed to disable a computer program automatically with the passage of time or under the positive control of any Person, or otherwise deprive VanMobile of its lawful right to use such Software. 

k) "Intellectual Property" means all algorithms, application programming interfaces (APIs), apparatus concepts, blog articles, case studies, Confidential Information, data, databases and data collections, designs, diagrams, documentation, drawings, flow charts, formulae, ideas and inventions (whether or not patentable or reduced to practice), know-how, materials, marketing and development plans, marks (including brand names, product names, logos, and slogans), methods, models, net lists, network configurations and architectures, procedures, processes, protocols, schematics, software code (in any form including source code and executable or object code), specifications, subroutines, techniques, test vectors, tools, uniform resource identifiers including uniform resource locaters (URLs), user interfaces, web sites and the written and graphical content included therein, works of authorship, and other forms of technology. 

l) "Intellectual Property Rights" means all past, present, and future rights of the following types, which may exist or be created under the laws of any jurisdiction in the world: 
(a) rights associated with works of authorship, including exclusive exploitation rights, copyrights and copyrightable works (including computer programs), moral rights, rights in data and databases, and mask work rights; 
(b) trademark, service mark, trade dress, logo, corporate name, domain name, and trade name rights and similar rights together with all of the goodwill associated therewith; 
(c) trade secret rights, know-how, and other confidential information; 
(d) patent rights, patent disclosures, inventions (whether patentable or not), and industrial property rights; 
(e) other proprietary rights in Intellectual Property of every kind and nature, in each case whether registered or unregistered; and 
(f) rights in or relating to registrations, renewals, extensions, combinations, divisions, and reissues of, and applications for, any of the rights referred to in clauses (a) through (e) of this sentence, and all similar or equivalent rights or forms of protection provided by applicable Law in any jurisdiction throughout the world. 

m) "Law" means any statute, law, ordinance, regulation, rule, code, order, constitution, treaty, common law, judgment, decree, other requirement or rule of law of any federal, state, local or foreign government or political subdivision thereof, or any arbitrator, court or tribunal of competent jurisdiction. 

n) "Open-Source Components" means any software component that is subject to any open-source copyright license agreement, including any GNU General Public License or GNU Library or Lesser Public License, or other license agreement that substantially conforms to the Open Source Definition as prescribed by the Open Source Initiative or otherwise may require disclosure or licensing to any third party of any source code with which such software component is used or compiled. 

o) "Person" means an individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability entity, governmental authority, unincorporated organization, trust, association or other entity. 

p) "Representatives" means a party's employees, officers, directors, consultants, legal advisors. 

q) "Services" means any of the services Contractor is required to or otherwise does provide under this Agreement or any Statement of Work, as more fully described in this Agreement or such Statement of Work. 

r) "Software" means the computer program(s), including programming tools, scripts and routines, the Contractor is required to or otherwise does develop or otherwise provide under this Agreement, as described more fully in each Statement of Work, including all updates, upgrades, new versions, new releases, enhancements, improvements and other modifications made or provided. As context dictates, Software may refer to one or more software deliverables, individually or in aggregate, required to be delivered as set forth in any one or more applicable Statement(s) of Work. 

s) "Source Code" means the human readable source code of the Software to which it relates, in the programming language in which such Software was written, together with all related flow charts and technical documentation, including a description of the procedure for generating object code, all of a level sufficient to enable a programmer reasonably fluent in such programming language to understand, operate, support, maintain and develop modifications, upgrades, updates, enhancements, improvements and new versions of, and to develop computer programs compatible with, such Software. 

t) "Statement of Work" means any statement of work entered into by the parties and attached as an Exhibit to this Agreement. 

u) "Third Party" means any individual or entity other than VanMobile or Contractor. 

v) "Third-Party Materials" means any materials and information, including documents, data, know-how, ideas, methodologies, specifications, software, content and technology, in any form or media, in which any Person other than VanMobile or Contractor owns any Intellectual Property Right, but specifically excluding Open-Source Components. 

w) "Work Product" means 
(a) all of the items and materials provided by Contractor to VanMobile under this Agreement, including all Software and any other items and materials specifically designated or characterized as deliverables in a Statement of Work, and all other items and materials otherwise provided by Contractor in connection with performing the Services, whether or not required under this Agreement or any applicable Statement of Work, together with all ideas, concepts, processes and methodologies developed in connection therewith whether or not embodied therein, and 
(b) all Intellectual Property, in any stage of development, that Contractor conceives, creates, develops, or reduces to practice in connection with performing the Services and all tangible embodiments (including models, presentations, prototypes, reports, samples, and summaries) of each item of such Intellectual Property. 




~~~~  